good afternoon well for many of us it's
been a chilly morning the temperatures
have struggled to get up new high with a
lot of low cloud and mistiness around
even now we've got temperatures around 2
to 4 degrees in many areas
and even minus 3 in the northwest of
England and it's been speculation that
we're in for a very cold weekend ahead
this is not the Met Office forecast if
you take a look at what's happening for
Friday we've still got an area of low
pressure it's where the front down the
eastern side of the United Kingdom by
Saturday we find the weather fronts
coming in from the Atlantic or once more
the timing on those it's going to be
difficult but if we look at the
prevailing wind condition at the moment
it is westerly and it stays that way for
the rest of this week it will get quite
strong I think for a time Wednesday and
into Thursday as we find a weather
system coming in from the Atlantic and
as you can see the cold air is never too
far away in the near continent but for
the weekend
those winds westerly or even
southwesterly and fairly mild by night
as well we're going to lose those
Frost's as the fronts come in from the
Atlantic we may just see the cold
weather returning for just a short time
but it's led me by night it looks as
though Friday Saturday Sunday night it
will be far milder
well back to today it's a fairly quiet
day weather-wise we've had a lot of
mister and as I said it is beginning to
break up now I think for many it will be
a dry afternoon with some sunshine but
out to the west the rain is riding in
the south of Ireland and that will
gradually head its way east woods topped
em today then around 5 to 7 degrees
certainly feeling a bit chilly if you're
out and about as we head through tonight
the weather front from Atlantic starts
heading its way in very slow progress
eastwards though and that means it will
still be down the western side of United
Kingdom by Dawn if we zoom in on that
you can see that high pressure then
remains the dominant feature tonight and
that means it will turn foggy and also
frosty once more with temperatures down
as low as minus 2 to minus 3 after the
West is the cloud in the rain and the
wind picks up though I think
temperatures will be around +2 2 plus 3
as we head through to tomorrow then it's
certainly going to be a very slow
progress this weather front and that
means for many it will start off dry and
bright and frosty on the eastern side
after the West though I think we will
find some snow over the higher ground
particularly perhaps in Cumbria and up
into Southwest Scotland that progress
only very slowly eastwards then as we
head through the earth
and I think Northeast Scotland in the
northwest will stay dry until after dark
into Wednesday one where the front on
the eastern side another one coming in